
# PhonePe Pulse Dashboard

# Overview

This repository contains a dashboard to visualize PhonePe Pulse data using Streamlit and Plotly in Python. The dashboard is designed to provide insights into PhonePe transactions and user data at both the state and district levels. The main components of the dashboard are:

Geo-Visualization
Transactions Analysis
Users Analysis
Top States Data

# Components

1. Geo-Visualization
 The Geo-Visualization component includes an interactive India map that displays Total Transactions of PhonePe at both the state and district levels. Users can input the year and quarter to observe how the data 
 has changed over time. Key features include:

      Plotly's scatter_geo: For plotting districts along with the content.
   
      Plotly's choropleth: For drawing the states in the India map.

2. Transactions Analysis
 The Transactions Analysis component focuses on the total Transactions count and total amount in each state and district. Different graphs available in Plotly are used for representation, including:

      State-wise study: Bar graph showing the increasing order of PhonePe Transactions by state.
  
      District-wise study: Allows users to observe how transactions are happening in districts of a selected state.
  
      Year-wise study: Observes the states with total transactions in a particular mode in the selected year.
  
      Overall Analysis: Demonstrates how transactions have increased over time.

 3. Users Data Analysis

 The Users Data Analysis component deals with Registered Users count and App openings via different mobile brands in each state and district. The following analyses are performed:

      State-wise study: Observes how App Openings and Registered users are growing in a state.
      
      District-wise study: Allows users to observe how App Openings are happening in districts of a selected state.
      
      Year-wise study: Observes the top leading brands in a particular state in a given year.
      
      Overall Analysis: Shows the increase in Registered Users and App openings year by year.

 4. Top States Data
 This component provides insights into states with:

      Top Registered users.
    
      Top Total Amount Transacted.
    
      Highest Transactions count.
    
      Top app openings.

# Usage

To use the PhonePe Pulse Dashboard:

Report-Dashboard_045011.ipynb 

Clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/Python_Project_Term-2_Dashboard_Streamlit.git

Run the Code-

1.Installing Streamlit:

!pip install streamlit -q

This code installs the Streamlit library in the Google Colab environment.

2.Getting IP Address:

!wget -q -O - ipv4.icanhazip.com

This code retrieves the public IP address, which you might use as a passcode when accessing the dashboard later.

3.Running Streamlit App and LocalTunnel:

!streamlit run app.py & npx localtunnel --port 8501

!streamlit run app.py runs the Streamlit app in the background.

& allows the next command to be executed in parallel.

npx localtunnel --port 8501 exposes the locally running Streamlit app to a public URL using localtunnel.

After running these commands, you should see a link generated by localtunnel, something like: https://few-vans-double.loca.lt/.

# Important Note:
Make sure that your Google Colab runtime remains active while accessing the link, as closing the Colab notebook may stop the localtunnel connection.

Also, remember to replace app.py with the actual name of your Streamlit application file. If your application is named differently, update the command accordingly.

# Contributing
If you would like to contribute to the development of this dashboard, please follow the guidelines in CONTRIBUTING.md.
